Announcing Ssreflect version 1.4

We are pleased to announce the new release of the Ssreflect extension
for the Coq proof assistant.  This release includes:
- an update of the tactic language which complies with the new version of Coq;
- an extended update of the libraries distributed in the previous release of
  ssreflect.

The name Ssreflect stands for "small scale reflection", a style of proof
that evolved from the computer-checked proof of the Four Colour Theorem and
which leverages the higher-order nature of Coq's underlying logic to
provide effective automation for many small, clerical proof steps. 
This is often accomplished by restating ("reflecting") problems in a more
concrete form, hence the name.
For example, in the Ssreflect library arithmetic comparison is not an
abstract predicate, but a function computing a boolean.

Along with documentation, also available at [1], the Ssreflect distribution
comprises two parts:
- A new tactic language, which promotes more structured, concise and
  robust proof scripts, and is in fact independent from the "reflection"
  proof style. It is implemented as a linkable extension to the Coq
  system.
- A set of Coq libraries that provide core "reflection-oriented"
  theories for 
  + basic combinatorics: arithmetic, lists, graphs, and finite sets.
  + abstract algebra: an algebraic hierarchy from
    additive groups to closed fields, polynomials, matrix, general linear
    algebra, basic and advanced finite group theory,
    infrastructure for finite summations,...)

Some features of the tactic language:
- It provides tacticals for most structural steps (e.g., moving
  assumptions), so that script steps mostly match logical steps.
- It provides tactics and tatical to support structured layout,
  including reordering subgoals and supporting "without loss of
  generality" arguments.
- It provides a powerful rewriting tactic that supports chained
  rules, automatic unfolding of definitions and conditional rewriting,
  as well as precise control over where and how much rewriting occurs.
- It can be used in combination with the classic Coq tactic language.

Some features of the library:
- Exploits advanced features of Coq such as coercions and canonical
  projections to build generic theories (e.g., for decidable equality).
- Uses rewrite rules and dependent predicate families to state
  lemmas that can be applied deeply and bidirectionally. This means
  fewer structural steps and a smaller library, respectively.
- Uses boolean functions to represent sets (i.e., comprehensions),
  rather than an ad hoc set algebra.

The Ssreflect 1.4 distribution is available at [2].  It is distributed
under the CeCILL-B licence (the French equivalent of the BSD license).
    
Comments and bug reports are of course most welcome, and can be
directed at ssreflect(at-sign)msr-inria.inria.fr. 
To subscribe, either send an email to sympa@msr-inria.inria.fr, whose title
contains the word ssreflect, or use the following web interface at [3].


Enjoy!

The Mathematical Components Team, at the Microsoft Research-Inria
Joint Center

[1] : http://hal.inria.fr/inria-00258384
[2] : http://www.msr-inria.inria.fr/Projects/math-components
[2] : https://www.msr-inria.inria.fr/sympa
